# Risk management practices
# Source PDF pages: 105-119

[[page 105]]
105
International AI Safety Report 2026
Risk management practices
Section 3.2
Risk management practices
Key information
 — General-purpose AI risk management comprises a range of practices used to 
identify, assess, and reduce risks from general-purpose AI. These include model-
level testing and evaluation (such as ‘red-teaming’), organisational processes 
guiding development and release decisions, conditional safeguards (such as ‘if-then’ 
commitments), and incident reporting.
 — Several AI developers have produced Frontier AI Safety Frameworks.  These 
frameworks include information about risk assessments and specify conditional 
measures such as access restrictions companies plan to implement for more capable 
models. They vary in the risks they cover, how they define capability thresholds, and 
what actions are triggered when threshol ds are reached.
 — Evidence on the real-world effectiveness of AI risk management practices remains 
limited. Lack of incident reporting and monitoring makes it difficult to assess how well 
current practices reduce risks or how consistently they a re implemented.
 — Since the publication of the last Report (January 2025), risk management has 
become more structured through new industry and governance initiatives. New 
instruments such as the EU’s General-Purpose AI Code of Practice, China’s AI Safety 
Governance Framework 2.0, and the G7’s Hiroshima AI Process Reporting Framework, 
together with company-led initiatives, illustrate the trend towards more standardised 
approaches to transparency, evaluation, and inci dent reporting.
 — Key challenges for policymakers include prioritising among the diverse risks 
posed by general-purpose AI, and clarifying which actors across the AI value 
chain are best positioned to mitigate them.  These challenges are compounded by 
limited visibility into how risks are identified, evaluated, and managed in practice, 
as well as fragmented information sharing between developers, deployers, and 
infrastructure providers.
AI risk management comprises a range 
of practices that aim to identify, assess, and 
reduce the likelihood and severity of risks 
associated with AI systems . These practices 
can be implemented by AI developers, deployers, 
evaluators, and regulators. Examples include 
threat modelling, risk tiering, red-teaming, 
auditing, and incident reporting . This section 
outlines current risk management practices, 
new developments, and remaining limitations.
Since the start of 2025, several new international 
initiatives for general-purpose AI risk management 
have developed, including organisational 
transparency and risk reporting frameworks as 
well as regulatory and governance frameworks. 

[[page 106]]
Risk management practices
106
International AI Safety Report 2026
Remaining challenges include limited 
standardisation, which complicates compliance 
and assessment, and limited evidence regarding 
real-world effectiveness. Further, institutional, 
cultural, and political contexts differ globally, 
which implies that approaches to identifying 
and managing risks, including acceptable risk 
thresholds, may vary across regions.
This section’s discussion of risk management 
approaches is descriptive: it aims to inform 
actors in the AI ecosystem about current 
global approaches to risk management . Where 
available, evidence on the effectiveness and 
limitations of these approaches is discussed, 
but policy recommendations are outside the 
scope of this work.
Components of risk 
management
Risk management is an iterative process with 
practices and methods that span the entire AI 
development and deployment cycle, but which 
work together coherently (969). Risk management 
for general-purpose AI can include roles for a wide 
range of actors including data scientists, model 
engineers, auditors, domain experts, executives, 
end users, impacted communities, third-party 
suppliers, policymakers, governments, standards 
organisations, and civil society organisations (970, 
971, 972). Leading risk management standards are 
often interoperable, but use different terminology 
to describe the elements of risk management 
(973, 974). They typically have four interconnected 
components (Figure 3.4): identifying; analysing 
and evaluating; mitigating; and governing risk (970, 
973, 975, 976). The tables below provide illustrative 
examples of relevant methods, techniques, and 
tools. Practices continue to evolve, so the tables 
are not exhaustive, and applicability will vary 
across contexts.
Risk identification
Risk identification is the process of finding, 
recognising, and describing risks . Comprehensive 
risk identification typically encompasses 
capability-driven assessments, which test 
whether models possess specific dangerous 
Risk mitigation
Prioritising, evaluating,
and implementing risk 
reducing controls
Risk management has four components
Risk analysis/evaluation
Determining the
levels of risk relative
to risk tolerance
Risk identiﬁcation
Finding, recognising,
and describing risks
Risk governance
Establishing 
accountability and 
oversight for risk 
management
Figure 3.4: The four categories of methods for general-purpose AI risk management: risk identification; 
risk analysis and evaluation; risk mitigation; and risk governance. These form an iterative and 
cyclical process. Risk governance, shown in the centre, facilitates the success of other components. 
Source: International AI Safety Report 2026 .

[[page 107]]
107
International AI Safety Report 2026
Risk management practices
capabilities (977), as well as risk modelling (978) 
and forecasting (715*), which are used to explore 
existing and emerging risks. Table 3.1 provides 
various examples of risk identification practices. 
Risk identification also draws on engagement 
with relevant experts and communities to 
understand the broader context of how risks 
emerge (979, 980). Mechanisms such as bug 
bounty programmes can support this process 
by incentivising the identification of previously 
unknown vulnerabilities (981) (Table 3.1). A key 
goal of risk identification is to account for both 
well-known, well-understood risks and potential 
future risks that remain uncertain or poorly 
characterised (982). This is particularly important 
for general-purpose AI, where many risks may not 
yet be fully understood or observable (875).
Risk identification 
practice
Explanation and examples of use in general-purpose  
AI risk management
Bug bounty 
programmes
Bug bounties or vulnerability disclosure programmes incentivise people 
to find and report vulnerabilities in AI systems. Several developers have 
implemented bug bounty programmes (983*, 984*).
Expert 
consultation
Domain experts, users, and impacted communities provide insights into likely 
risks. There are emerging guidelines for participatory and inclusive AI (985).
Fishbone 
(Ishikawa) 
diagram
Fishbone diagrams are well-established root cause analysis tools, and 
researchers have proposed using them for structured analysis of AI risk 
incidents (986).
Forecasting Forecasting is the process of predicting future events or trends based on 
analysis of past and present data. It has been used to compare the relative 
likelihood of, for example, different economic outcomes due to advanced 
AI (715*, 987).
Risk taxonomy Risk taxonomies are a way to categorise and organise risks across multiple 
dimensions. There are several that outline risks from general-purpose AI 
(906, 988).
Scenario planning Scenario planning entails developing plausible future scenarios and 
analysing how risks materialise. This has been used to explore the risks 
and impacts of AI models (989).
Threat modelling Threat modelling is a process for identifying threats and vulnerabilities to 
a system. Numerous AI developers highlight their use of threat modelling 
to anticipate potential misuse scenarios of AI systems (990*, 991*).
Table 3.1: Example methods for AI risk identification listed alphabetically. The methods included 
are designed to support risk identification for many different risk types including risks from malicious 
use, risks from malfunctions, and systemic risks. Given the nascent nature of general-purpose AI risk 
management, not all methods will be suitable for every AI developer or deployer.
Threat modelling and risk taxonomies are 
prominent risk identification methods
Two prominent methods for identifying the risks 
from general-purpose AI are threat modelling 
(a structured process for mapping how AI-related 
risks may materialise) and risk taxonomies. Meta, 
for example, uses threat modelling exercises 
to anticipate potential misuse scenarios of its 
AI models (990*), and Anthropic includes threat 

[[page 108]]
Risk management practices
108
International AI Safety Report 2026
modelling as part of its ASL-3 Deployment 
Standard (991*). AI risk and hazard taxonomies, 
which list risk categories and examples, can 
equally serve as a starting point to conceptualise, 
identify, and specify the salient risks associated 
with general-purpose AI in specific application 
domains (906, 988, 992, 993).
Risk analysis and evaluation
Risk analysis and evaluation is the process of 
determining the level of risk of an AI model or 
system and comparing it against established 
criteria to assess acceptability or the need 
for mitigation (994, 995, 996, 997). It includes 
practices such as measuring model performance 
on benchmarks (998) and evaluations (176*, 715*), 
conducting red-teaming exercises (999*), impact 
assessments (1000), and audits (1001, 1002). See 
Table 3.2 for examples of general-purpose AI 
risk analysis and evaluation . The methods are 
designed to support analysis and evaluation for 
many different risk types simultaneously.
Key goals of risk analysis and evaluation are 
carrying out evaluations of model capabilities 
and vulnerabilities (1003), leveraging robust 
risk modelling to inform decisions about risk 
thresholds (1004, 1005), and understanding how 
AI systems are used in practice in order to assess 
downstream societal impacts (869, 904*, 905*, 
1006). Risk analysis and evaluation processes 
are often considered to be more likely to identify 
risks when they incorporate independent review 
(1001, 1007), draw on cross-sector expertise 
(1008), and include diverse perspectives from 
multiple domains and disciplines, as well as 
from impacted communities (1009, 1010).
Risk analysis/ 
eval uation practice
Explanation and examples of use in general-purpose  
AI risk management
Audits Audits are formal reviews of AI models’ performance and impacts and/
or an organisation’s compliance with standards, policies, and procedures, 
carried out internally or by an external party. AI auditing is a growing field, and 
numerous tools and practices exist for auditing AI models and the practices 
of AI model developers (1001, 1011, 1012, 1013, 1014, 1015, 1016, 1017, 1018).
Benchmarks Benchmarks are standardised, often quantitative tests or metrics used to 
evaluate and compare the performance of AI systems on a fixed set of tasks 
designed to represent real-world usage (177, 1003).
Bowtie method The bowtie method is a well-known method for visualising where controls can 
be added to mitigate risk events. It provides a clear differentiation between 
proactive and reactive risk management (1019).
Delphi method The Delphi method is a group decision-making technique that uses a series of 
questionnaires to gather consensus from a panel of experts (1020, 1021). It has 
been used to help explore possible futures with advanced AI (1022).
Field-testing Field-testing evaluates an AI system’s performance and impact in a real-
world, operational environment. Some research emphasises field-testing 
as a complement to model evaluation for assessing real-world outcomes 
and consequences (869, 1023*).
Impact 
assessment
Impact assessments assess the potential impacts of a technology or project . 
This might include quantifying, aggregating, and prioritising impacts . The EU 
AI Act, for example, requires developers of high-risk AI systems to carry out 
Fundamental Rights Impact Assessments (1024).

[[page 109]]
109
International AI Safety Report 2026
Risk management practices
Risk analysis/ 
eval uation practice
Explanation and examples of use in general-purpose  
AI risk management
Model evaluation Model evaluations include processes and tests to assess and measure an AI 
model’s performance on a particular task . There are numerous AI evaluations 
to assess different capabilities and risks, including for safety, security, and 
social impact (1025*, 1026*).
Probabilistic risk 
assessment
Probabilistic risk assessment is a methodology for evaluating risks associated 
with complex systems or processes that incorporates uncertainty . It has been 
adapted for advanced AI systems (1027).
Red-teaming Red-teaming is an exercise in which a group of people or automated systems 
pretend to be an adversary and attack an organisation’s technological systems in 
order to identify vulnerabilities. Numerous AI companies have internal practices 
for red-teaming of AI systems (458*, 1028*). Red-teaming can also be conducted 
by actors outside of companies. These teams face challenges such as limited 
access, but can also surface distinct insights (689).
Risk matrices Risk matrices are a visual tool to help prioritise risks according to their 
likelihood of occurrence and potential impact (1027). Some AI developers 
include basic risk matrices in their Frontier AI Safety Frameworks (1029*).
Risk thresholds/
risk tiers
Risk thresholds or tiers are quantitative or qualitative limits that distinguish 
acceptable from unacceptable risks and trigger specific risk management actions 
when exceeded. For general-purpose AI, they are determined by a combination of 
capabilities, impact, compute, reach, and other factors (946, 1005, 1030, 1031).
Risk tolerance Risk tolerance refers to the level of risk that an organisation is willing to accept . 
In AI, risk tolerances are often set implicitly through company policies and 
practices, while some regulatory regimes explicitly define unacceptable risks 
and attach legal consequences (1032). Some companies describe their risk 
tolerance in terms of a new model’s marginal risk; that is, the extent to which 
a model counterfactually increases risk beyond that already posed by existing 
models or other technologies (1033).
Safety cases A safety case is a structured argument, supported by evidence, that a system is 
acceptably safe to operate in a particular context . Recent literature (1037, 1038, 
1039) has explored safety cases for frontier AI systems and certain Frontier AI 
Safety Frameworks reference them (1040*).
System safety 
analysis
System safety analysis highlights dependencies between components and the 
system that they are part of, in order to anticipate how system-level hazards 
can emerge from component or process failures, or interactions between 
subsystems, human factors, and environmental conditions . Approaches applied 
for AI systems in the literature include systems-theoretic process analysis 
(STPA) (683, 1034*, 1035, 1036).
Table 3.2: Example methods for AI risk analysis/evaluation, listed alphabetically. Given the nascent nature 
of general-purpose AI risk management, not all methods will be suitable for every AI developer or deployer.

[[page 110]]
Risk management practices
110
International AI Safety Report 2026
Common risk analysis tools include 
benchmarks and model evaluations
Benchmarks and model evaluations are 
standardised tests to assess general-purpose 
AI systems’ performance on specific tasks. 
Researchers have developed a broad range of 
benchmarks and evaluations, including sets of 
challenging multiple choice questions, software 
engineering problems, and work-related tasks 
in simulated office environments (188*, 629, 998, 
1041, 1042, 1043, 1044*, 1045, 1046*, 1047, 1048, 
1049). Harmful capability evaluations (715*) are 
used to assess whether a general-purpose AI 
model or system has particularly dangerous 
knowledge or skills, such as the ability to aid 
in cyberattacks (see §2.1.3. Cyberattacks).
Highly consequential decisions by companies 
and governments about model releases partially 
rely on these evaluations (1050*, 1051*, 1052). 
However, benchmarks significantly vary in 
quality and scope (998, 1003), and it can be 
difficult to judge their validity due to numerous 
shortcomings in benchmarking practices (902, 
909, 1003, 1053*). For example, benchmarks can 
become ‘saturated’ – when many models’ scores 
approach the top score – meaning they no longer 
strongly distinguish between models . Models are 
also increasingly likely to identify certain tasks 
as evaluations and display different behaviours 
than they would on similar tasks in deployment 
contexts due to ‘situational awareness’ (see 
§2.2.2. Loss of control). Finally, benchmarks and 
evaluations have well-documented limitations: 
notably, they fail to capture risks associated 
with general-purpose AI use in new domains 
and for novel tasks, as test conditions differ 
from real-world usage to varying degrees (913) 
(see §1.2. Current capabilities and §3.1. Technical 
and institutional challenges).
Red-teaming allows for more domain-
specific assessments of risk
Another common method for assessing risks is 
red-teaming. A ‘red team’ is a group of evaluators 
tasked with searching for vulnerabilities, 
limitations, or potential for misuse . Red-teaming 
can be domain-specific and performed by domain 
experts, or open-ended to explore new risk 
factors. For example, a red team might explore 
‘jailbreaking’ attacks that subvert the model’s 
safety restrictions (1054, 1055*, 1056, 1057, 
1058, 1059*). In contrast to benchmarks, a key 
advantage of red-teaming is that red teams can 
adapt their evaluations to the specific system 
being tested. For example, red teams can design 
custom inputs to identify worst-case behaviours, 
malicious use opportunities, and unexpected 
failures. However, it can require special access to 
models and may fail to surface important classes 
of risks (999*, 1028*).
Importantly, the absence of identified risks does 
not imply that those risks are low: prior work 
shows that bugs frequently evade detection, 
particularly when red teams have limited access 
or resources (1060). Research has also called 
into question whether red-teaming can produce 
reliable and reproducible results (1061). The 
composition of the red team and the instructions 
provided to red-teamers (1062*), the number of 
attack rounds (1063*), and the model’s access to 
tools (1064, 1065) can significantly influence the 
outcomes, including the risk surface covered . 
Comprehensive guidelines on red-teaming aim 
to address some of these challenges (1066).
Risk mitigation
Risk mitigation is the process of prioritising, 
evaluating, and implementing controls and 
countermeasures to reduce identified risks. 
Examples are access controls (991*), continuous 
monitoring (986), and if-then commitments (700). 
Mitigating risk raises a key question: what is the 
acceptable level of risk? Recent frameworks and 
company policies have begun to formalise ‘risk 
acceptance’ criteria (965, 1040*). However, setting 
appropriate thresholds remains challenging 
especially for risks with wide societal impacts (986, 
1067). No established mechanism currently exists 
for validating risk acceptance decisions made by 
developers prior to release (1005).
The risk mitigation methods described in 
Table 3.3 below are adaptable and can mitigate 
a range of risks, including some unexpected 
risks. The table does not include technical 
mitigation methods such as adversarial training, 
content filters, and chain-of-thought monitoring. 
These are covered in §3.3. Technical safeguards 
and monitoring, as well as throughout the 
Report in the ‘Mitigations’ paragraphs for 
each risk in §2. Risks.

[[page 111]]
111
International AI Safety Report 2026
Risk management practices
Risk mitigation 
practice
Explanation and examples of use in general-purpose  
AI risk management
Acceptable 
use policies
An acceptable use policy is a set of rules and guidelines for the responsible, 
ethical, and legal use of AI models . It is common for AI developers to publish 
acceptable use policies, as well as prohibited use policies, with new model releases 
(1068*, 1069*).
Access 
control/user 
vetting
Access controls include using policies and rules to restrict access to AI models, 
data, and systems based on user roles, attributes, and other conditions to prevent 
unauthorised use, manipulation, or data breaches. AI companies frequently disable 
accounts found to be engaging in criminal activity (486*) and include user vetting 
and Know-Your-Customer screenings to ensure that models are only used by 
trusted actors (991*, 1029*, 1070).
Behaviour/
model 
specification
An AI behaviour specification is a document that defines how an AI model 
should behave in various situations . It serves as a blueprint for AI alignment and 
safety, guiding model development, training, evaluation, and outputs . Several AI 
companies use model specification documents and make at least parts of them 
public (1071*, 1072*).
Continuous 
monitoring
Continuous monitoring is the ongoing, automated process of observing, analysing, 
and controlling AI systems in use, tracking their performance and limiting their 
behaviour to ensure reliability, efficacy, and safety. There are numerous tools 
available for continuous monitoring (1073*) as well as techniques to support 
AI observability (1074).
Defence-in-
depth
Defence-in-depth is the idea that multiple independent and overlapping layers of 
defence can be implemented such that if one fails, others will still be effective (1075, 
1076). Multiple Frontier AI Safety Frameworks reference it (e.g. (1077*)).
Ecosystem 
monitoring
This is the process of monitoring the broader AI ecosystem, including compute 
and hardware tracking, model provenance, data provenance, and usage patterns . 
The research literature discusses such monitoring in relation to risks from 
general-purpose AI (690).
If-then 
commitments
If-then commitments are a set of technical and organisational protocols and 
commitments to manage risks as AI models become more capable . Several AI 
developers employ these types of commitments as part of their Frontier AI Safety 
Frameworks (991*, 1040*, 1078*).
Red lines or 
prohibitions
Red lines are specific boundaries expressed as capabilities, impact, or types of use. 
The concept appears in public statements and initiatives, as well as in regulatory 
prohibitions (1079, 1080, 1081). The literature also notes limitations of red-line 
approaches, including challenges around consensus and enforceability.
Release and 
deployment 
strategies
Release and deployment strategies for general-purpose AI can include using 
staged releases or API access so that more mitigation options are available in the 
event of misuse or unexpected harm (1050*, 1051*, 1082).
Table 3.3: Example methods for AI risk mitigation listed alphabetically. The methods included are 
designed to support risk mitigation for many different risk types simultaneously, including risks from 
malicious use, risks from malfunctions, and systemic risks. Given the nascent nature of general-purpose 
AI risk management, not all methods will be suitable for every AI developer or deployer.

[[page 112]]
Risk management practices
112
International AI Safety Report 2026
Defence-in-depth and release strategies 
are important mitigation tools
A ‘defence-in-depth’ model can support general-
purpose AI risk management . In this context, 
‘defence-in-depth’ refers to a combination of 
technical, organisational, and societal measures 
applied across different stages of development 
and deployment (Figure 3.5). This means creating 
layers of independent safeguards, so that if one 
layer fails, other layers can still prevent harm . 
A commonly cited example of a defence-in-depth 
model is the range of preventative measures 
that are deployed to prevent infectious diseases . 
Vaccines, masks, and hand-washing, among 
other measures, can reduce the risk of infection 
substantially in combination, even though none 
of these methods are 100% effective on their 
own (1083*). For general-purpose AI, defence-
in-depth will include controls that are not on the 
AI model itself, but on the broader ecosystem. 
This includes (for example) controls on the 
materials needed to execute a biological attack 
such as reagents (1084, 1085). However, defence-
in-depth measures primarily address risks related 
to accidents, malfunction, and malicious use, 
and may play less of a role in managing systemic 
risks (see §3.5. Building societal resilience).
A company’s release and deployment strategy 
is an important component of risk mitigation . 
Decisions about how models are made available 
to users can substantially affect risk exposure 
(1082). Different release and deployment options 
include staged release to limited user groups, 
access through controlled online services (such 
as APIs), and the use of licensing agreements 
and acceptable use policies that legally prohibit 
certain harmful applications (176*, 1086*, 1087). 
§3.4. Open-weight models discusses in more 
detail how releasing model weights  affects risks.
Risk governance
Risk governance is the process by which risk 
management evaluations, decisions, and actions 
are connected to the strategy and objectives 
of an organisation or other entity (1088, 1089). 
Table 3.4 provides an overview of common risk 
governance techniques. As shown in Figure 3.4, 
risk governance can be understood as the 
core of risk management as it facilitates the 
Training
interventions
Defence-in-depth layers multiple safeguards to reduce risk
Deployment
interventions
Post-deployment 
monitoring
Societal 
resilience
Harm eventThreats
Vulnerability
in defence
layer
Risk trajectory
Figure 3.5: A ‘Swiss cheese diagram’ illustrating the defence-in-depth approach: multiple 
layers of defences can compensate for flaws in individual layers. Current risk management 
techniques for AI have flaws, but layering them can offer much stronger protection against risks. 
Source: International AI Safety Report 2026 .

[[page 113]]
113
International AI Safety Report 2026
Risk management practices
effective operation of other components of 
risk management. It provides accountability, 
transparency, and clarity that support informed 
risk management decisions. Risk governance 
can include practices such as incident reporting 
(1090), risk responsibility allocation (965), and 
whistleblower protection (1091). More broadly, risk 
governance may include guidance, frameworks, 
legislation, regulation, national and international 
standards, as well as training and educational 
initiatives. A key purpose of risk governance is to 
establish organisational policies and mechanisms 
that clarify how risk management responsibilities 
are allocated across an organisation or other 
entity, in order to support appropriate oversight 
and accountability (965, 1092*, 1093).
Risk governance 
practice
Explanation and examples of use in general-purpose  
AI risk management
Documentation Documentation practices help track key information about AI systems, such as 
training data, design choices, intended uses, limitations, and risks . ‘Model cards’ 
and ‘system cards’, which provide information about how an AI model or system 
was trained and evaluated, are examples of prominent AI documentation best 
practices (1094, 1095*).
Incident 
reporting
Incident reporting is the process of systematically documenting and sharing 
cases in which developing or deploying AI has caused direct or indirect harm . 
There are several platforms that facilitate incident reporting for AI (1096, 1097), 
and frameworks to facilitate more effective AI incident reporting (1090).
Risk 
management 
frameworks
Risk management frameworks are organisational plans to reduce gaps in risk 
coverage, coordinate various risk management activities, and implement checks 
and balances. Frameworks specific to general-purpose AI (986, 1098) often 
reference the other measures mentioned in this section .
Risk register A risk register is a repository of various risks, their prioritisation, owners, and 
mitigation plans. These are relatively common in many industries, including 
cybersecurity (1099), and are sometimes used to fulfil regulatory compliance 
requirements.
Risk 
responsibility 
allocation
The allocation of roles and responsibilities for risk management within an 
organisation can structure internal oversight of decision-making (1002, 1093). 
Such arrangements are reflected in some governance frameworks, including 
the EU’s General-Purpose AI Code of Practice (965).
Transparency 
reports
Transparency reports describe an AI company’s risk management practices by 
publicly disclosing certain information or by sharing documentation with industry 
groups or government bodies. For example, numerous AI companies submit 
Hiroshima AI Process (HAIP) transparency reports (1100).
Whistleblower 
protection
Because much of AI development occurs behind closed doors, some 
governance frameworks include whistleblower protections to enable disclosure 
of potential risks to authorities (1091).
Table 3.4: Example methods for AI risk governance listed alphabetically. The methods included are 
designed to support risk governance for many different risk types simultaneously, including risks from 
malicious use, risks from malfunctions, and systemic risks. Given the nascent nature of general-purpose 
AI risk management, not all methods will be suitable for every AI developer or deployer.

[[page 114]]
Risk management practices
114
International AI Safety Report 2026
Documentation and transparency 
are components of risk governance
Documentation and institutional transparency 
mechanisms, together with information-sharing 
practices, facilitate external scrutiny and 
support efforts to manage risks associated with 
general-purpose AI (1101, 1102). It has become 
common practice to publish the results of pre-
deployment tests in a ‘model card’ or ‘system 
card’, along with basic details about the model 
or system, including how it was trained and what 
its potential limitations are (1094, 1095*). Some 
developers also publish transparency reports 
that include details about their risk management 
practices more broadly (1103). Other elements 
of documentation and transparency include 
monitoring and incident reporting (176*, 1083*, 
1103) and information sharing, which can be 
facilitated by third parties such as the Frontier 
Model Forum. Some regulatory frameworks, 
such as the EU AI Act or California’s Transparency 
in Frontier Artificial Intelligence Act - Senate 
Bill No. 53 (SB 53) (1081, 1104), mandate 
information sharing about general-purpose 
AI risks in some cases.
Leadership commitment and 
incentives shape risk management 
practices
Organisational culture, leadership structure, 
and incentives affect risk management efforts in 
various ways (1105). Leadership commitment and 
incentive structures are often relevant to how risk 
management policies operate in practice . Some 
developers have internal decision-making panels 
that deliberate on how to safely and responsibly 
design, develop, and review new AI systems . 
Oversight and advisory committees, trusts, or AI 
ethics boards can also serve as mechanisms for 
risk management guidance and organisational 
oversight (1092*, 1106, 1107, 1108). Researchers 
have argued that challenges with voluntary 
self-governance mean that third-party auditing, 
verification, and standardisation could help 
strengthen general-purpose AI risk management 
(1001, 1011, 1109, 1110, 1111, 1112).
†  Signatories as of December 2025 include: Accexible, AI Alignment Solutions, Aleph Alpha, Almawave, Amazon, Anthropic, 
Bria AI, Cohere, Cyber Institute, Domyn, Dweve, EUC Inovação Portugal, Fastweb, Google, Humane Technology, IBM, Lawise, 
LINAGORA, Microsoft, Mistral AI, Open Hippo, OpenAI, Pleias, re-inventa, ServiceNow, Virtuo Turi ng, and WRITER .
Organisational risk 
management, transparency, 
and risk reporting 
frameworks
Several new initiatives focus on risk management 
processes, documentation, and transparency . 
In its current form, the EU General-Purpose 
AI Code of Practice functions as a voluntary 
framework to guide transparency, copyright, 
and safety and security practices to support 
compliance with the EU AI Act’s provisions for 
general-purpose AI (965). As of December 2025, 
more than two dozen companies† have signed. 
The G7 Hiroshima AI Process (HAIP) Reporting 
Framework (1100) is the first international 
framework for voluntary public reporting of 
organisational risk management practices for 
advanced AI systems. At least 20 developers have 
published public transparency reports covering 
risk identification, evaluation metrics, mitigation 
strategies, and data secu rity processes .
AI developers have adopted voluntary 
transparency commitments . In China, pledges 
by 17 Chinese AI companies, coordinated by the 
AI Industry Alliance of China, were released in 
December 2024 (1113) and updated in 2025 (1114). 
At the May 2024 AI Seoul Summit in South Korea, 
16 AI developers from multiple countries signed 
voluntary commitments to publish Frontier AI 
Safety Frameworks for their most capable models 
and systems, and to adopt risk management 
practices across model development and 
deployment stages (1052).
Frontier AI Safety Frameworks have 
become a prominent organisational 
approach to AI risk management
Since 2023, several frontier AI developers have 
voluntarily published documents describing 
how they plan to identify and respond to serious 
risks from their most advanced systems . These 
Frontier AI Safety Frameworks describe how an AI 
developer plans to evaluate, monitor, and control 
its most advanced AI models and systems before 

[[page 115]]
115
International AI Safety Report 2026
Risk management practices
and during deployment. These frameworks 
share many similarities, but differ in key respects 
(1115, 1116). Most focus on risks associated with 
chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear 
(CBRN) threats, advanced cyber capabilities, and 
advanced autonomous behaviour (1115, 1117). 
A minority of frameworks address additional risk 
domains such as unlawful discrimination at scale 
and child sexual exploitation.
Several developers updated their 
frameworks in 2025, adding new sections 
on harmful manipulation, misalignment 
risk, and autonomous replication and 
adaptation (1078*, 1118*). While many 
frameworks describe similar risk management 
approaches – including threat modelling, 
red-teaming, and dangerous capability 
evaluations – they vary in their definitions 
of risk tiers and thresholds, the frequency 
of evaluations, buffers between evaluations 
and thresholds, and the comprehensiveness 
of their mitigation commitments (for example, 
whether they include deleting model weights 
versus just pausing development) (1115, 1119). 
See Table 3.5 for mo re information .
Many actions in Frontier AI Safety 
Frameworks are based on if-then 
commitments
A key part of Frontier AI Safety Frameworks 
are ‘if-then commitments’. These are conditional 
protocols that trigger specific responses when AI 
models and systems reach predefined capability 
thresholds (1120). For example, an if-then 
commitment might state that if a model is found 
to have the ability to meaningfully assist novices 
in creating and deploying CBRN weapons, then 
the developer will implement enhanced security 
measures, deployment controls, and real-time 
monitoring (991*).
In 2025, several AI developers announced that 
new models triggered early warning alerts or 
that they could not rule out the possibility that 
further evaluation would show that models have 
crossed capability thresholds. This prompted 
them to apply heightened safeguards as 
a precautionary measure (7*, 33*, 1121*). Frontier 
AI Safety Frameworks commonly require an initial 
capabilities evaluation prior to risk mitigation, as 
well as a residual risk analysis or a safety case, 
often informed by red-teaming, after mitigation. 
See Table 3.5 for detailed information.
AI developer Covered risks Risk tiers or equivalent and associated safeguards
OpenAI
Preparedness 
Framework 2 
(1078*)
1.  Biological and chemical 
capabilities
2.  Cybersecurity 
capabilities
3.  AI self-improvement 
capabilities
High: Could amplify existing pathways to severe 
harm (Require security controls and safeguards )
Critical: Could introduce unprecedented new 
pathways to severe harm (Halt further development 
until specified safeguards and security controls 
standards meet a Critical standard)
Anthropic
Responsible 
Scaling Policy 2.2 
(991*)
1.  CBRN weapons
2.  Autonomous AI 
research and 
development (AI R&D)
3.  Cyber operations (under 
assessment)
AI Safety Levels (ASL)
ASL-1: No significant catastrophic risk
ASL-2: Early signs of dangerous capabilities ( Models 
must meet the ASL-2 Deployment and Security 
Standards)
ASL-3: Substantially increased catastrophic misuse 
risk (Models must meet the ASL-3 Deployment and/
or Security Standards)
ASL-4+: Future classifications (not yet defined)

[[page 116]]
Risk management practices
116
International AI Safety Report 2026
AI developer Covered risks Risk tiers or equivalent and associated safeguards
Google
Frontier Safety 
Framework 3.0 
(1040*)
1.  Misuse
 a. CBRN
 b. Cyber
 c. Harmful manipulation
2.  Machine learning R&D
3.  Misalignment/
Instrumental reasoning
Critical Capability Levels
Capability levels at which, absent mitigation 
measures (safety cases for deployments and 
security mitigations aligned with RAND security 
levels 2, 3, or 4 (1122)), AI models or systems may 
pose heightened risk of severe harm. The capability 
levels include ‘early warning evaluations’, with 
specific ‘alert thresholds’
Meta
Frontier AI 
Framework 1.1 
(990*)
1. Cybersecurity
2.  Chemical and 
biological risks
Risk Threshold Levels
Moderate (release with appropriate security 
measures and mitigations)
High (do not release)
Critical (stop development)
Amazon
Frontier Model 
Safety Framework 
(1123*)
1.  CBRN weapons 
proliferation
2.  Offensive cyber 
operations
3.  Automated AI R&D
Critical Capability Thresholds
Model capabilities that have the potential to cause 
significant harm to the public if misused. ( If the 
thresholds are met or exceeded, the model will 
not be publicly deployed without appropriate 
risk mitigation measures)
Microsoft
Frontier 
Governance 
Framework (1124*)
1.  CBRN weapons
2.  Offensive cyber 
operations
3.  Advanced autonomy 
(including AI R&D)
Risk Levels
Low or Medium (Deployment allowed in line with 
Responsible AI Program requirements)
High or Critical (Further review and mitigations 
required)
NVIDIA
Frontier AI Risk 
Assessment 
(1029*)
1.  Cyber offence
2.  CBRN
3.  Persuasion and 
manipulation
4.  Unlawful discrimination 
at scale
Risk Thresholds – model risk (MR) scores
MR1 or MR2 (Evaluation results are documented 
by engineering teams)
MR3 (Risk mitigation measures and evaluation 
results are documented by engineering teams 
and periodically reviewed )
MR4 (A detailed risk assessment should be completed 
and business unit leader approval is required)
MR5 (A detailed risk assessment should be 
completed and approved by an independent 
committee e.g., NVIDIA’s AI ethics committee )
Cohere
Secure AI Frontier 
Model Framework 
(1125*)
1.  Malicious use 
(e.g. malware, child 
sexual exploitation)
2.  Harm in ordinary, 
non-malicious use, 
e.g. outputs that result in 
an illegal discriminatory 
outcome or insecure 
code generation
Likelihood and Severity of Harm in Context
Low
Medium
High
Very High
(Risk mitigations and security controls are in place 
for all systems and processes; additional mitigations 
need to be adapted to the AI system and use case 
in which a model is deployed )

[[page 117]]
117
International AI Safety Report 2026
Risk management practices
AI developer Covered risks Risk tiers or equivalent and associated safeguards
xAI
Risk Management 
Framework (1126*)
1.  Malicious use (including 
CBRN and cyber 
weapons)
2.  Loss of control
Thresholds
Thresholds are set based on scores on public 
benchmarks for dangerous capabilities ( Heightened 
safeguards are applied for high-risk scenarios such 
as large-scale violence or terrorism )
Magic
AGI Readiness 
Policy  
(1127*)
1.  Cyber offence
2.  Automated AI R&D
3.  Autonomous replication 
and adaptation
4.  Biological weapons 
assistance
Critical Capability Thresholds
Quantitative thresholds on capability benchmarks 
(If crossed, conduct dangerous capability 
evaluations, information security measures, and 
deployment mitigations, or halt development )
Naver
AI Safety 
Framework 
(1128*)
1.  Loss of control
2.  Misuse (e.g. biochemical 
weaponisation)
Risk Levels
Low risk (Deploy AI systems, but perform monitoring 
afterwards to manage risks)
Risk identified (Either open AI systems only to 
authorised users to mitigate risks, or withhold 
deployment until additional safety measures are 
taken, depending on use case )
High risk (Do not deploy AI systems)
G42
Frontier AI Safety 
Framework (1129*)
1.  Biological threats
2.  Offensive cybersecurity
3.  Autonomous operation 
and advanced 
manipulation
Risk Levels
Level 1 (Basic safeguards for minimal risks 
and potential for open source release)
Level 2 (Real-time monitoring, prompt filtering, 
behavioural anomaly detection, access controls, 
red-teaming, and adversarial simulations )
Level 3 (Advanced safeguards including red-
teaming, phased rollouts, adversarial testing, 
encryption, multi-party access controls, and 
zero-trust architecture)
Level 4 (Maximum safety protocols for high-stakes 
models and maximum security measures )
Table 3.5: The first set of Frontier AI Safety Frameworks that have been released by a subset of the 
AI developers that signed the Frontier AI Safety Commitments. The frameworks cover similar risks 
(with slight variations) and employ different risk tiers and risk management approaches.
The effectiveness of Frontier AI Safety 
Frameworks is uncertain
Frontier AI Safety Frameworks can serve as risk 
management tools under specific conditions and 
for certain risk categories that have a credible 
pathway to harm (1117). At the same time, several 
analyses discuss questions regarding their clarity 
and scope (111, 986) and about the robustness 
of AI capability and risk thresholds (1031, 1130). 
Existing frameworks tend to focus on a subset 
of risk domains. As a result, some prominent 
risks, such as unlawful surveillance (1131, 1132) 
and non-consensual intimate imagery (287), 
receive less emphasis . Unlike risk management 
approaches from other sectors, such as aviation 
or nuclear power (1133*), Frontier AI Safety 

[[page 118]]
Risk management practices
118
International AI Safety Report 2026
Frameworks typically do not use explicit 
quantitative risk thresholds (1134).
External assessments of developers’ compliance 
with their Frontier AI Safety Frameworks so far 
remain limited, in part because most frameworks 
are recent, publicly available information is 
scarce, and there are no standardised external 
audits. Their effectiveness will also be shaped 
on how well – and to what extent – commitments 
are implemented in practice. On their own, 
these frameworks may not ensure effective 
risk management, since their practical impact 
depends on how well and to what extent they are 
implemented. To date, they do not fully align with 
international risk management standards (1135). 
A study on prior voluntary commitments found 
uneven fulfilment across measures, suggesting 
that adherence to voluntary commitments 
is likely to vary between companies and 
domains (1109).
Taken together, Frontier AI Safety Frameworks 
represent the most detailed form of voluntary 
organisational risk management currently in use, 
but vary substantially in scope, thresholds, and 
enforceability.
Regulatory and 
governance initiatives
Several jurisdictions have introduced 
laws with transparency requirements
Several early regulatory approaches introduce 
legal requirements intended to increase 
standardisation and transparency in risk 
management. The EU AI Act, which entered 
into force in 2024, establishes requirements 
related to transparency, copyright, and safety 
for general-purpose AI models . In 2025, the 
EU General-Purpose AI Code of Practice was 
published to support compliance with these 
obligations by providing guidance on model 
documentation and copyright, as well as – for 
the most advanced models – risk management 
practices such as evaluations, risk assessment 
and mitigation, information security and serious 
incident reporting (965).
Other examples of new regulatory requirements 
include South Korea’s Framework Act on the 
Development of Artificial Intelligence and 
Establishment of Trust, which introduces 
requirements for ‘high-impact’ AI systems 
in critical sectors (1136), and California’s SB 53, 
which sets transparency requirements on 
safety frameworks and incident reporting (1104). 
Given how recently these requirements were 
established, it is too early to assess in detail 
how they will affect risk management practices 
or actual risk outcomes.
Broader governance initiatives 
offer voluntary guidance
Several regional and interregional governance 
frameworks now articulate shared expectations 
for managing risks from general-purpose AI by 
providing non-binding guidance for policymakers 
and organisations. China’s AI Safety Governance 
Framework 2.0, published in 2025, provides 
structured guidance on risk categorisation and 
countermeasures across the AI development 
and deployment process (1137). ASEAN Member 
States published the ‘ASEAN Expanded Guide 
on AI Governance and Ethics (Generative AI)’, 
which provides guidance on general-purpose AI 
governance and ethics and is intended to support 
greater policy alignment across ASEAN Member 
States (1138). In addition, expert-led initiatives 
such as the Singapore Consensus, developed 
by AI scientists from multiple countries, outline 
research priorities for general-purpose AI 
safety across risk assessment, development, 
and control (690).
Updates
Since the publication of the last Report 
(January 2025), the risk management landscape 
for general-purpose AI has evolved, with the 
publication of new resources such as the EU’s 
General-Purpose AI Code of Practice, the 
G7 HAIP Reporting Framework, China’s national 
AI Safety Governance Framework 2 .0 and various 
AI developers’ Frontier AI Safety Frameworks. 
These initiatives describe approaches and 
practices used by AI developers to manage 
the risks associated with general-purpose AI 
systems (1115). There is substantial variation 
across the Frontier AI Safety Frameworks 
and across HAIP transparency reports (1103), 
reflecting differences in organisational practices, 
risk prioritisation, and the early stage of the 

[[page 119]]
119
International AI Safety Report 2026
Risk management practices
general-purpose AI risk management ecosystem . 
A trusted ecosystem where different AI actors 
contribute complementary risk management 
practices across the lifecycle may contribute 
to effective risk management (690).
Evidence gaps
There is a lack of evidence on: how to measure 
the severity, prevalence, and timeframe of 
emerging risks; the extent to which these risks 
can be mitigated in real-world contexts; and how 
to effectively encourage or enforce mitigation 
adoption across diverse actors . More research 
is needed to understand how prevalent different 
risks are and how much they vary across different 
regions of the world, especially for regions such 
as Asia, Africa, and Latin America that are rapidly 
digitising. As AI models are given increasing 
agency and authority and the state of the 
science of general-purpose AI risks advances, 
risk management approaches will also need 
to evolve (639, 1139).
Certain risk mitigations are growing in 
popularity (690, 956), but more research is 
needed to understand how robust risk mitigations 
and safeguards are in practice for different 
communities and AI actors (including for small 
and medium-sized enterprises). Greater access 
to data on real-life deployment and usage of 
models is relevant to such assessments . Further, 
risk management efforts currently vary highly 
across leading AI companies . It has been argued 
that developers’ incentives are not well-aligned 
with thorough risk assessment and management 
(934). There is still an evidence gap around the 
degree to which different voluntary commitments 
are being met, what obstacles companies face in 
adhering fully to commitments, and how they are 
integrating Frontier AI Safety Frameworks into 
broader AI risk management practices.
Challenges for policymakers
Key challenges include determining how to 
prioritise the diverse risks posed by general-
purpose AI, clarifying which actors are best 
positioned to mitigate them, and understanding 
the incentives and constraints that shape their 
actions. Evidence indicates that policymakers 
currently have limited access to information 
about how AI developers and deployers are 
testing, evaluating, and monitoring emerging 
risks, and about the effectiveness of different 
mitigation practices (1140). Researchers and 
policymakers have discussed transparency 
efforts and more systematic incident reporting 
as possible ways to inform risk prioritisation, 
promote trust, and incentivise responsible 
development (957). In practice, risk management 
involves multiple actors across the AI value 
chain – such as data and cloud providers, model 
developers, and model hosting platforms – 
each with distinct opportunities to assess and 
manage different risks (1141). Limited information 
sharing between these actors makes it difficult 
to determine which risks are most likely or 
impactful, particularly when downstream 
societal effects are considered.